docs/source/developers.rst, before:

Developer Documentation
=======================
.. _XNAT: https://xnat.org
.. _command.json: https://github.com/harvard-nrg/anatqc/blob/xnat-1.7.6/command.json
.. _Gradle: https://gradle.org/install/
.. _pip: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/
.. _python: https://www.python.org/downloads/
.. _PyPi: https://pypi.org/project/dwiqc/
.. _prequal: https://github.com/MASILab/PreQual
.. _qsiprep: https://qsiprep.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _FSL: https://fsl.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/fslwiki
.. _chromium: https://www.chromium.org/chromium-projects/

HPC/Local Installation
----------------------
At the moment, the only supported way to install *DWIQC* is via "bare metal" using the `python`_ package manager `pip`_. A python version >=3.4 will come with pip preinstalled. Esnure that you have both python and pip installed on your HPC or local machine before attempting to install *DWIQC*.

Creating a Virtual Environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
With python and pip installed, you can download and install *DWIQC* from `PyPi`_. You may choose to do so in a `virtual environment <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`_. The examples here (and in other portions of the documentation) will assume that you are using a virtual environment, though it won't affect any installation or running instructions.

To create a virtual environment, named dwiqc in this example, run the following command:

.. code-block:: shell

    python3 -m venv dwiqc

Activate the virtual environment:

.. code-block:: shell

    source dwiqc/bin/activate

Your terminal window should look something like this with the name of the virtual environment in parentheses and a directory with the virtual env name.

.. image:: images/venv.png

Installing DWIQC and Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Install *DWIQC* from the command line using pip:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install dwiqc

*DWIQC* will being installing along with some of its dependencies. It should only take a few moments. Run ``pip show dwiqc`` to ensure that it was installed successfully.

*DWIQC* relies on the `prequal`_, `qsiprep`_, `chromium`_, and `FSL`_ software packages so we will need to download those respective containers into your local environment. *DWIQC* uses specific and customized versions of these packages. They can be easily installed using *DWIQC*'s *install-containers* functionality. *DWIQC* will default to installing the containers at ``~/.config/dwiqc/containers``; however, the user can specify a download directory using the ``--install-location`` commmand:

.. code-block:: shell

    dwiQC.py install-containers --install-location /path/to/install/location

The containers will take 30-45 minutes to download depending on your connection speed. The containers will occupy ~30GB of storage space so pick a directory with plenty of free storage. Once the containers are downloaded, you'll be ready to `run dwiqc <xnat.html>`_!

XNAT Installation
-----------------
The following section will describe how to build and configure *DWIQC* as an `XNAT`_ plugin.

building the plugin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Clone the ``xnat-1.8`` branch from the ``github.com/harvard-nrg/dwiqc`` 
repository ::

    git clone -b xnat-1.8 --single-branch https://github.com/harvard-nrg/dwiqc

Change into the repository directory and compile the plugin using `Gradle`_ ::

    ./gradlew jar

Once the plugin has been compiled, move the resulting ``.jar`` into your XNAT plugins directory ::

    mv ./build/libs/dwiqc-plugin-1.0.0.jar ${XNAT_HOME}/plugins/

Commit message:

add instructions for setting up dwiqc data type

docs/source/developers.rst, after:

Developer Documentation
=======================
.. _XNAT: https://xnat.org
.. _command.json: https://github.com/harvard-nrg/anatqc/blob/xnat-1.7.6/command.json
.. _Gradle: https://gradle.org/install/
.. _pip: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/
.. _python: https://www.python.org/downloads/
.. _PyPi: https://pypi.org/project/dwiqc/
.. _prequal: https://github.com/MASILab/PreQual
.. _qsiprep: https://qsiprep.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _FSL: https://fsl.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/fslwiki
.. _chromium: https://www.chromium.org/chromium-projects/

.. note::
    This documentation assumes a basic understanding of the command line. Here's a quick (and free!) crash `course <https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-the-command-line>`_ if needed.

HPC/Local Installation
----------------------
At the moment, the only supported way to install *DWIQC* is via "bare metal" using the `python`_ package manager `pip`_. A python version >=3.4 will come with pip preinstalled. Esnure that you have both python and pip installed on your HPC or local machine before attempting to install *DWIQC*.

Creating a Virtual Environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
With python and pip installed, you can download and install *DWIQC* from `PyPi`_. You may choose to do so in a `virtual environment <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`_. The examples here (and in other portions of the documentation) will assume that you are using a virtual environment, though it won't affect any installation or running instructions.

To create a virtual environment, named dwiqc in this example, run the following command:

.. code-block:: shell

    python3 -m venv dwiqc

Activate the virtual environment:

.. code-block:: shell

    source dwiqc/bin/activate

Your terminal window should look something like this with the name of the virtual environment in parentheses and a directory with the virtual env name.

.. image:: images/venv.png

Installing DWIQC and Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Install *DWIQC* from the command line using pip:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install dwiqc

*DWIQC* will being installing along with some of its dependencies. It should only take a few moments. Run ``pip show dwiqc`` to ensure that it was installed successfully.

*DWIQC* relies on the `prequal`_, `qsiprep`_, `chromium`_, and `FSL`_ software packages so we will need to download those respective containers into your local environment. *DWIQC* uses specific and customized versions of these packages. They can be easily installed using *DWIQC*'s *install-containers* functionality. *DWIQC* will default to installing the containers at ``~/.config/dwiqc/containers``; however, the user can specify a download directory using the ``--install-location`` commmand:

.. code-block:: shell

    dwiQC.py install-containers --install-location /path/to/install/location

The containers will take 30-45 minutes to download depending on your connection speed. The containers will occupy ~30GB of storage space so pick a directory with plenty of free storage. Once the containers are downloaded, you'll be ready to `run dwiqc <xnat.html>`_!

XNAT Installation
-----------------
The following section will describe how to build and configure *DWIQC* as an `XNAT`_ plugin.

Building the Plugin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Clone the ``xnat-1.8`` branch from the ``github.com/harvard-nrg/dwiqc`` 
repository ::

    git clone -b xnat-1.8 --single-branch https://github.com/harvard-nrg/dwiqc

Change into the repository directory and compile the plugin using `Gradle`_ ::

    ./gradlew jar

Once the plugin has been compiled, move the resulting ``.jar`` into your XNAT plugins directory ::

    mv ./build/libs/dwiqc-plugin-1.0.0.jar ${XNAT_HOME}/plugins/

Activating the Plugin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
There are several necessary steps to activate the *DWIQC* plugin via your XNAT instance's home page. First, login and click on the *Administer* button at the top:

.. image:: images/administer-button.png

Next, click on *Data Types*:

.. image:: images/data-types.png

Click on *Setup Additional Data Type*:

.. image:: images/setup-data-type.png

You will see a drop down menu. Select *neuroinfo:dwiqc* and click *Submit*.

.. image:: images/neuroinfo-dwiqc.png

You can leave all of the True/False statements as they are in this window (unless you have a reason to change them). Fill in the boxes labeled *Singular Name*, *Plural Name*, and *Category* with the information shown below and click *Next*. 

.. image:: images/dwiqc-access-options.png

Click *Next* through the remainder of the windows without editing anything, and Voila! *DWIQC* is now configured on your XNAT instance.
